UI/public/Docs/Instructions.md, before:

#STEM Competition Site

## Overview
This instruction page tells you how to register for the site, sign in, create and join teams, and participate in competitions.  For details on each particular competition, see the instructions linked from that competition's page.

## Registering and Logging in
Registering and logging in works in the usual fashion.  Click the Register tab to fill in basic information and a password.  You'll need an Email to use as your login name.  The Site Terms page is [Terms.html]("here").

## Competitions
Once you've logged in, the site shows you the My Competitions tab.  When you first log in this will be empty.   To participate, you must either join an existing team, or create one of your own (which can be just yourself as a team of one if you want).  The Join Competitions tab lets you do this.

### Joining a Competition
The Join Competitions tab shows all competitions that you can join.  Click <b>Join this Competition</b> under a competition name to get information on that competition, including instructions for the competition and the teams participating.  Expanding each team will show the current team members, including the team lead.  Contact the team lead to get added to an existing team, or create a team of your own via the Create Team button.  Once you're part of a team that is competing, the relevant competition will show under your My Competitions tab.

## Managing Teams
The Teams tab lets you manage your team involvements.  It shows each team of which you are a member, with buttons to the right allowing modification of team details if you are the team's owner.  

You can expand each team to see its members.  If you're team lead, you can remove any other team member via trashcan buttons to the right (though not yourself).  You must assign leadership to another member before removing yourself from the team.  If you're not lead, then you can remove just yourself from the team via the trashcan button to the right.  

Team leads can add members via the "plus" button, edit the team details via the edit button, and even delete the team, via the delete button on the team (not on the individual members).  Editing a team includes changing the team name, and also giving leadership to another member of the team.

## Checking on a Competition's Status
To see how you and other teams are doing in a competition, click the Competition Status button on the relevant competition in the My Competitions page.  This will lead you to a status page.

### Submit or Check a Design
This page shows the status of any prior submission you made, including time/date of submission, score awarded, and a graphical display of your submission, possibly with animation if the competition warrants animated display. If the competition is animated, you can play, stop, and replay the animation of your submission via buttons on the right. 

### Making a new submit
The submit button on the Submit Page pops up a dialog via which you may enter a new submission.  Once you do this, it may take several seconds for the submission to be graded.  The page will show you a message indicating that it's checking for a result, and then will show the result once your submission is graded.

Commit message:

Revisions to show problem diagram before any submission

UI/public/Docs/Instructions.md, after:

#STEM Competition Site

## Overview
This instruction page tells you how to register for the site, sign in, create and join teams, and participate in competitions.  For details on each particular competition, see the instructions linked from that competition's page.

## Registering and Logging in
Registering and logging in works in the usual fashion.  Click the Register tab to fill in basic information and a password.  You'll need an Email to use as your login name.  The Site Terms page is [Terms.html]("here").

## Competitions
Once you've logged in, the site shows you the My Competitions tab.  When you first log in this will be empty.   To participate, you must either join an existing team, or create one of your own (which can be just yourself as a team of one if you want).  The Join Competitions tab lets you do this.

### Joining a Competition
The Join Competitions tab shows all competitions that you can join.  Click <b>Join this Competition</b> under a competition name to get information on that competition, including instructions for the competition and the teams participating.  Expanding each team will show the current team members, including the team lead.  Contact the team lead to get added to an existing team, or create a team of your own via the Create Team button.  Once you're part of a team that is competing, the relevant competition will show under your My Competitions tab.

## Managing Teams
The Teams tab lets you manage your team involvements.  It shows each team of which you are a member, with buttons to the right allowing modification of team details if you are the team's owner.  

You can expand each team to see its members.  If you're team lead, you can remove any other team member via trashcan buttons to the right (though not yourself).  You must assign leadership to another member before removing yourself from the team.  If you're not lead, then you can remove just yourself from the team via the trashcan button to the right.  

Team leads can add members via the "plus" button, edit the team details via the edit button, and even delete the team, via the delete button on the team (not on the individual members).  Editing a team includes changing the team name, and also giving leadership to another member of the team.

## Checking on a Competition's Status
To see how you and other teams are doing in a competition, click the Competition Status button on the relevant competition in the My Competitions page.  This will lead you to a status page.

### Submit or Check a Design
The Competition Status page shows the status of each team signed up for the competition, including team details and most recent score.  For any team you are a part of it also provides a Submit/Check button, which leads to a Submission Page.

### Submission Page
The Submission Page gives you information on your team's most recent design submission for the competition in question, including time/date of submission, score awarded, and a diagram of the competition problem, in either schematic or full 3-D form.  ....  graphical display of your submission, possibly with animation if the competition warrants animated display. 

-------------


If the competition is animated, you can play, stop, and replay the animation of your submission via buttons on the right. 

### Making a new submit
The submit button on the Submit Page pops up a dialog via which you may enter a new submission.  Once you do this, it may take several seconds for the submission to be graded.  The page will show you a message indicating that it's checking for a result, and then will show the result once your submission is graded.
