Docs/Startup.md, before:

#To install Physics Competition Development#

## Permissions and Prep

  1. You will probably need sudo/admin privilege for the installation.
  2. Get access to repo at github.com/ClintStaley/PhysicsCompetition, after signing the CLA.

## git clone the repo
  1. Pick a local directory in which you want your clone repo to appear and use the git clone command.

## Install Node and Npm
  1. Install nodejs 12+ and npm 6+.  Note that newer versions of Ubuntu tend to fall back to old versions of node/npm apparently due to procrastination on testing later versions against the new Ubuntus....  Instead, get node and npm from a recent repo, e.g.:<pre>
sudo apt-get install curl python-software-properties
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_current.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt-get install nodejs
</pre>
  1. In source directories RESTServer and in UI run npm install to download all missing modules

## MySQL setup
  1. Install MySQL commandline client and server from www.mysql.com.  
  1. Log in to SQL server via mysql as SQL root user.  There are various ways to do this, the simplest being to run mysql -uroot -p and supply the root password you configured on install.  
	2. Create a nonroot user for yourself: create user 'newuser'@'localhost' identified with mysql_native_password by 'newpassword';  This will let you point the RESTServer to a database under that user, rather than using root privilege.
	3. Grant your new user general permissions for the CmpDB database with: GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON CmpDB.* TO 'newUser'@'localhost'; You may also find this guide useful: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-new-user-and-grant-permissions-in-mysql
  4. For Windows users it may be necessary to change more settings to include mySQL in the System Variables path. For instructions see https://phoenixnap.com/kb/mysql-command-not-found-error#:~:text=MySQL%20is%20an%20open%2Dsource,to%20find%20the%20executable%20file.
  1. For your new SQL user, create a CmpDB database by running the RESTServer/DB/Deploy.sql file from the MySQL command client.  The MySQL command `source Deploy.sql` will do this if you start the mysql client in the DB directory.  Or in Windows, where you can't control the home directory of your MySQL client, you may need `source <full path to Deploy.sql starting from c:>`
  1. In RESTServer/Routes create a connection.json file, using exampleConnection.json as a reference.  This connection.json file specifies, for the REST server, how to log in to the database, and what database to use.  Fill in the relevant fields with the CmpDB database, non-root user id, and password.

## Running RESTServer
  1. Run the server from RESTServer via `node main.js -h -test -p <port>`, using a port number of your choice.  This should be equal to the api port [line 2 of UI/src/api.js] for compatibility with the clientside UI, and should match whatever port your Postman test suite addresses (preferably the same) for testing with Postman (see below)
  3. The `-test` commandline option enables the testing routes, particularly the DB Delete route.  Use this flag only in testing.
  4. The `-h` commandline option turns off https setup if that setup is a nuisance during testing.  Again, use the flag only during testing.
  
## Test Run with Postman
  1. Install Postman on your machine (www.postman.com) and read up a bit on its purpose and function.
  1. Set up Postman with the collection specified under RESTServer/Tests/PostmanTest1.json.
  1. Set up a Postman environment to point to the port on your local machine on which you are running the RESTServer
  1. Run the RESTServer as specified above.
  1. Run the collection.  You should get all-green.  Fix any bugs that arise.

## Configure Evaluation Client (EVC)
  1. install the latest Open JDK if you dont have it.  Sudo apt-get install openjdk-12 on Ubuntu.  
  1. install Maven.
  1. Install Eclipse.
  1. Install Eclipse plugin Maven2Eclipse. Open eclipse and under the help menu click install new software, and click add site, you can use http://www.eclipse.org/m2e/m2e-downloads.html to find the address for the version you want.  If you are using an older version of eclipse then you must use an older version of M2E I had to use version 1.3.1 of M2e to go with my version 3.8 eclipse.
  # Error Troubleshooting
  1. If running EVCMain results in a error mentioning log4j the Maven library has not been corectly loaded. In a Windows Command Line enter `mvn eclipse:clean` to erase all maven dependencies (If the mvn command is not found you must add the maven/bin directory to the build path in windows settings). Right click the pom.xml select maven -> Update Project to build the correct dependencies. NOTE: This may remove any Additonal Libraries as well.
  2. If there is no maven project to update. Right click the main project file in Eclipse select Configure -> Convert -> Maven Project. Then complete the update mentioned above and the Maven Dependencies should populate in the workspace.
  3. For any other errors ensure that the build path inside of Eclipse for the project is correct. Right click the project select Build Path -> Configure Build Path. Under the Source tab in the Java Build Path section there should be 2 folders. EvaluationClient/src/main/java and EvaluationClient/src/test/java. If either folder is not present select Add Folder and select the appropriate folders. Eclipse may need to restart after this step.

## Test Run with UI and EVC
1. Run the RESTServer with port matching the UI, as described above.
2. Start the clientside app via `npm start` in UI directory.  This should bring up a browser with the app.  If npm start throws a watch error enospc, then this command may fix the problem:`echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p`

Commit message:

More info on Windows setup of MySQL

Docs/Startup.md, after:

#To install Physics Competition Development#

## Permissions and Prep

  1. You will probably need sudo/admin privilege for the installation.
  2. Get access to repo at github.com/ClintStaley/PhysicsCompetition, after signing the CLA.

## git clone the repo
  1. Pick a local directory in which you want your clone repo to appear and use the git clone command.

## Install Node and Npm
  1. Install nodejs 12+ and npm 6+.  Note that newer versions of Ubuntu tend to fall back to old versions of node/npm apparently due to procrastination on testing later versions against the new Ubuntus....  Instead, get node and npm from a recent repo, e.g.:<pre>
sudo apt-get install curl python-software-properties
curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_current.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt-get install nodejs
</pre>
  1. In source directories RESTServer and in UI run npm install to download all missing modules

## MySQL setup
  1. Install MySQL commandline client and server from www.mysql.com.  
  1. Log in to SQL server via mysql as SQL root user.  There are various ways to do this, the simplest being to run mysql -uroot -p and supply the root password you configured on install.  
	2. Create a nonroot user for yourself: create user 'newuser'@'localhost' identified with mysql_native_password by 'newpassword';  This will let you point the RESTServer to a database under that user, rather than using root privilege.
	3. Grant your new user general permissions for the CmpDB database with: GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON CmpDB.* TO 'newUser'@'localhost'; You may also find this guide useful: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-create-a-new-user-and-grant-permissions-in-mysql
  4. For Windows users it may be necessary to change more settings to include mySQL in the System Variables path in order to run the mysql command from the Command Prompt terminal. For instructions see https://phoenixnap.com/kb/mysql-command-not-found-error#:~:text=MySQL%20is%20an%20open%2Dsource,to%20find%20the%20executable%20file. The other option to sign in as the new user for Windows is to make a copy of the MySQL Command Line Client and edit its properties. Under the Shortcut section, edit the target line and replace "-uroot" with "-ucmp", assuming that your nonroot username is cmp.
  1. For your new SQL user, create a CmpDB database by running the RESTServer/DB/Deploy.sql file from the MySQL command client.  The MySQL command `source Deploy.sql` will do this if you start the mysql client in the DB directory.  Or in Windows, where you can't control the home directory of your MySQL client, you may need `source <full path to Deploy.sql starting from c:>`
  1. In RESTServer/Routes create a connection.json file, using exampleConnection.json as a reference.  This connection.json file specifies, for the REST server, how to log in to the database, and what database to use.  Fill in the relevant fields with the CmpDB database, non-root user id, and password.

## Running RESTServer
  1. Run the server from RESTServer via `node main.js -h -test -p <port>`, using a port number of your choice.  This should be equal to the api port [line 2 of UI/src/api.js] for compatibility with the clientside UI, and should match whatever port your Postman test suite addresses (preferably the same) for testing with Postman (see below)
  3. The `-test` commandline option enables the testing routes, particularly the DB Delete route.  Use this flag only in testing.
  4. The `-h` commandline option turns off https setup if that setup is a nuisance during testing.  Again, use the flag only during testing.
  
## Test Run with Postman
  1. Install Postman on your machine (www.postman.com) and read up a bit on its purpose and function.
  1. Set up Postman with the collection specified under RESTServer/Tests/PostmanTest1.json.
  1. Set up a Postman environment to point to the port on your local machine on which you are running the RESTServer
  1. Run the RESTServer as specified above.
  1. Run the collection.  You should get all-green.  Fix any bugs that arise.

## Configure Evaluation Client (EVC)
  1. install the latest Open JDK if you dont have it.  Sudo apt-get install openjdk-12 on Ubuntu.  
  1. install Maven.
  1. Install Eclipse.
  1. Install Eclipse plugin Maven2Eclipse. Open eclipse and under the help menu click install new software, and click add site, you can use http://www.eclipse.org/m2e/m2e-downloads.html to find the address for the version you want.  If you are using an older version of eclipse then you must use an older version of M2E I had to use version 1.3.1 of M2e to go with my version 3.8 eclipse.
  # Error Troubleshooting
  1. If running EVCMain results in a error mentioning log4j the Maven library has not been corectly loaded. In a Windows Command Line enter `mvn eclipse:clean` to erase all maven dependencies (If the mvn command is not found you must add the maven/bin directory to the build path in windows settings). Right click the pom.xml select maven -> Update Project to build the correct dependencies. NOTE: This may remove any Additonal Libraries as well.
  2. If there is no maven project to update. Right click the main project file in Eclipse select Configure -> Convert -> Maven Project. Then complete the update mentioned above and the Maven Dependencies should populate in the workspace.
  3. For any other errors ensure that the build path inside of Eclipse for the project is correct. Right click the project select Build Path -> Configure Build Path. Under the Source tab in the Java Build Path section there should be 2 folders. EvaluationClient/src/main/java and EvaluationClient/src/test/java. If either folder is not present select Add Folder and select the appropriate folders. Eclipse may need to restart after this step.

## Test Run with UI and EVC
1. Run the RESTServer with port matching the UI, as described above.
2. Start the clientside app via `npm start` in UI directory.  This should bring up a browser with the app.  If npm start throws a watch error enospc, then this command may fix the problem:`echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p`
